[RF-DOCS] Solid Cache updates in Caching with Rails: An Overview [ci-skip] (#11)
Ridhwana/rails: guides/source/caching_with_rails.md

> 

Author: NOTE: I'll do a column wrap once reviews are done.

This guide is an introduction to speeding up your Rails application with caching.

Caching means to store content generated during the request-response cycle and
to reuse it when responding to similar requests.
After reading this guide, you will know about:

> Caching is often the most effective way to boost an application's performance.

Author: Moved this around into an introduction to be consistent with the other guides.

This guide is an introduction to speeding up your Rails application with caching.

After reading this guide, you will know about:

> * Solid Cache - a database-backed Active Support cache store.

Reviewer: We probably first want to explain how caching works in Rails before highlight a specific cache store?
Maybe group this with "Alternative cache stores." by moving it above "Alternative cache stores."?
I also think these intro lists should use a similar order as the guide.

This guide is an introduction to speeding up your Rails application with caching.

After reading this guide, you will know about:

* Solid Cache - a database-backed Active Support cache store.

> * Types of Caching Strategies including Fragment and Russian doll caching.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Types of caching strategies including Fragment and Russian Doll caching.
```

* How to manage the caching dependencies.
* Alternative cache stores.

> * Cache Keys

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Cache keys
```

Reviewer 2: I believe this should be lowercase k but ignore if I am incorrect

Author: I think you're correct. Cache Key has a  a capital K, and Cache keys is lowercase. I'll double chcek this before committing.

Author: ✅

Rails provides a set of caching features out of the box. This guide will teach
you the scope and purpose of each one of them. Master these techniques and your
Rails applications can serve millions of views without exorbitant response times
or server bills.

After reading this guide, you will know:

* Fragment and Russian doll caching.
* Solid Cache - a database-backed Active Support cache store.
* Types of Caching Strategies including Fragment and Russian doll caching.
* How to manage the caching dependencies.
* Alternative cache stores.
* Cache Keys
* Conditional GET support.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

> Basic Caching

Author: I renamed the Basic Caching heading to Types of Caching to be more explicit.

In this guide, you can explore Rails' comprehensive caching strategies, from page
caching to fragment caching and beyond. By using these techniques, you can
empower your Rails applications to serve millions of views while keeping

> response times low and server bills manageable.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This guide will explore Rails' comprehensive caching strategies, from fragment caching to SQL caching. With these techniques, your Rails application can serve millions of views while keeping response times low and server bills manageable.
```

Reviewer 2: Try to avoid words like empower if we can. And I think you removed page caching below, right?

Author: Correct -  https://github.com/Ridhwana/rails/pull/11/files#r1879041717

"Since these features, Page Caching and Action Caching, have been deprecated since Rails 4, I thought we could remove this section and any references to it. Additionally, the [[actionpack-page_caching gem](https://github.com/rails/actionpack-page_caching)](https://github.com/rails/actionpack-page_caching) has not received updates in three years.

I can revert these changes if we don't want to remove it."

NOTE: Changing the value of `config.action_controller.perform_caching` will
only have an effect on the caching provided by Action Controller.
For instance, it will not impact low-level caching, that we address
[below](#low-level-caching).
[below](#low-level-caching-using-rails-cache-fetch).

[`config.action_controller.perform_caching`]: configuring.html#config-action-controller-perform-caching

> ### Page Caching

Author: Since these features, Page Caching and Action Caching, have been deprecated since Rails 4, I thought we could remove this section and any references to it. Additionally, the [[actionpack-page_caching gem](https://github.com/rails/actionpack-page_caching)](https://github.com/rails/actionpack-page_caching) has not received updates in three years. 

I can revert these changes if we don't want to remove it.

Reviewer: That makes sense 👍

Will load a file named `hotels/hotel.html.erb` in any file MIME type, for example you could include this partial in a JavaScript file.

### Low-Level Caching using `Rails.cache.fetch`

Sometimes you need to cache a particular value or query result instead of caching view fragments. Rails' caching mechanism works great for storing any serializable information.

> The most efficient way to implement low-level caching is using the `Rails.cache.fetch` method. This method handles both _reading from_ and _writing to_ the cache. When called with a single argument, it fetches and returns the cached value for the given key. If a block is passed, the block is executed only on a cache miss. The block's return value is written to the cache under the given cache key and returned. In case of cache hit, the cached value is returned directly without executing the block.

Reviewer: `Rails.cache.fetch_multi` could be more efficient in some cases, for example when showing the competing price of a list of products.
```suggestion
An efficient way to implement low-level caching is using the `Rails.cache.fetch` method. This method handles both _reading from_ and _writing to_ the cache. When called with a single argument, it fetches and returns the cached value for the given key. If a block is passed, the block is executed only on a cache miss. The block's return value is written to the cache under the given cache key and returned. In case of cache hit, the cached value is returned directly without executing the block.
```

Author: TIL! I didn't know about `Rails.cache.fetch_multi`, I'll make a note of it so that we can add some details about it in this guide in the future! It sounds useful!

```ruby
# super_admins is an expensive SQL query, so don't run it too often
Rails.cache.fetch("super_admin_users", expires_in: 12.hours) do
  User.super_admins.to_a
end
```

You should __avoid__ this pattern. Why? Because the instance could change. In production, attributes
on it could differ, or the record could be deleted. And in development, it works unreliably with
cache stores that reload code when you make changes.

Instead, cache the ID or some other primitive data type. For example:

```ruby
# super_admins is an expensive SQL query, so don't run it too often
ids = Rails.cache.fetch("super_admin_user_ids", expires_in: 12.hours) do
  User.super_admins.pluck(:id)
end
User.where(id: ids).to_a
```

### SQL Caching

Query caching is a Rails feature that caches the result set returned by each
query. If Rails encounters the same query again for that request, it will use
the cached result set as opposed to running the query against the database
again.

For example:

```ruby
class ProductsController < ApplicationController
  def index
    # Run a find query
    @products = Product.all

    # ...

    # Run the same query again
    @products = Product.all
  end
end
```

> The second time the same query is run against the database, it's not actually going to hit the database. The first time the result is returned from the query it is stored in the query cache (in memory) and the second time it's pulled from memory.

Reviewer: I think it's also important to note here that the second time it will instantiate new instances of all products as well.

Author: ✅

However, it's important to note that query caches are created at the start of
an action and destroyed at the end of that action and thus persist only for the
duration of the action. If you'd like to store query results in a more

> persistent fashion, you can with low-level caching.

Reviewer: Should this be a NOTE?

Author: Probbaly should be, especially since I said "its important to note" 🙈 Done!

## Managing Dependencies

In order to correctly invalidate the cache, you need to properly define the
caching dependencies. Rails is clever enough to handle common cases so you don't
have to specify anything. However, sometimes, when you're dealing with custom
helpers for instance, you need to explicitly define them.

### Implicit Dependencies

Most template dependencies can be derived from calls to `render` in the template

> itself. Here are some examples of render calls that [`ActionView::Digestor`](https://edgeapi.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActionView/Digestor.html) knows

Reviewer: We should always [link to the none edge version](https://guides.rubyonrails.org/ruby_on_rails_guides_guidelines.html#linking-to-the-api) I think.
```suggestion
itself. Here are some examples of render calls that [`ActionView::Digestor`](https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActionView/Digestor.html) knows
```

Author: Oops sorry! Yes you are correct, that my mistake!

Will load a file named `hotels/hotel.html.erb` in any file MIME type, for example you could include this partial in a JavaScript file.

> ### Low-Level Caching using `Rails.cache.fetch`

Author: I didn't change any content in the Low-Level Caching section, I just renamed it to Low-Level Caching using `Rails.cache.fetch` to be more explicit.

Reviewer: There also is `Rails.cache.fetch_multi` and maybe sometimes you want to call `Rails.cache.read` or `Rails.cache.write` specifically.
So maybe use `Rails.cache` as low-level caching entry point?
```suggestion
### Low-Level Caching using `Rails.cache`
```

Sometimes you need to cache a particular value or query result instead of caching view fragments. Rails' caching mechanism works great for storing any serializable information.

> The most efficient way to implement low-level caching is using the `Rails.cache.fetch` method. This method does both reading and writing to the cache. When passed only a single argument, the key is fetched and value from the cache is returned. If a block is passed, that block will be executed in the event of a cache miss. The return value of the block will be written to the cache under the given cache key, and that return value will be returned. In case of cache hit, the cached value will be returned without executing the block.

Reviewer 2: Would this be better? "This method both reads and writes to the cache."

> The most efficient way to implement low-level caching is using the `Rails.cache.fetch` method. This method does both reading and writing to the cache. When passed only a single argument, the key is fetched and value from the cache is returned. If a block is passed, that block will be executed in the event of a cache miss. The return value of the block will be written to the cache under the given cache key, and that return value will be returned. In case of cache hit, the cached value will be returned without executing the block.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The most efficient way to implement low-level caching is using the `Rails.cache.fetch` method. This method handles both _reading from_ and _writing to_ the cache. When called with a single argument, it fetches and returns the cached value for the given key. If a block is passed, the block is executed only on a cache miss. The block's return value is written to the cache under the given cache key and returned. In case of cache hit, the cached value is returned directly without executing the block.
```

ids = Rails.cache.fetch("super_admin_user_ids", expires_in: 12.hours) do
  User.super_admins.pluck(:id)
end
User.where(id: ids).to_a
```

### SQL Caching

Query caching is a Rails feature that caches the result set returned by each
query. If Rails encounters the same query again for that request, it will use
the cached result set as opposed to running the query against the database
again.

For example:

```ruby
class ProductsController < ApplicationController
  def index
    # Run a find query
    @products = Product.all

    # ...

    # Run the same query again
    @products = Product.all
  end
end
```

The second time the same query is run against the database, it's not actually going to hit the database. The first time the result is returned from the query it is stored in the query cache (in memory) and the second time it's pulled from memory.

However, it's important to note that query caches are created at the start of
an action and destroyed at the end of that action and thus persist only for the
duration of the action. If you'd like to store query results in a more
persistent fashion, you can with low-level caching.

> ## Managing Dependencies

Author: I did not change anything in the Manage Dependencies section, but rather moved it out into its own section as its own header rather than being part of the Types of Caching section.

<%= some_helper_method(person) %>
```

Solid Cache
-----------

> Solid Cache is a database-backed Active Support cache store and is a great choice for applications that need to cache large amounts of data.

Reviewer 3: The "great choice for application..." may be oversimplifying it a bit. There are various tradeoffs involved (e.g. where your database store is located and how it's configured, etc.) The below is rewording is from the README and feels more accurate:

```suggestion
Solid Cache is a database-backed Active Support cache store. Solid Cache allows you keep a much larger cache than is typically possible with traditional memory-only Redis or Memcached stores (thanks to the speed of modern SSD drives).
```

Author: Below I outline "By leveraging the speed of modern SSDs, like NVMe, Solid Cache is designed to overcome the limitations of traditional memory-only caches like Redis and Memcached. " I reworded this a bit based on your suggestion and removed "great choice". so I combined your suggestions here with what I have below + incorporating the benefits into a shorter sentence to produce:

> Solid Cache is a database-backed Active Support cache store. It leverages the
> speed of modern [SSDs](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Solid-state_drive) (Solid
> State Drives) like [NVMe](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/NVM_Express)
> (Non-Volatile Memory Express), which helps overcome the limitations of
> traditional memory-only caches, offering cost-effective caching with larger
> storage capacity and simplified infrastructure. While SSDs are slightly slower
> than RAM, the difference is minimal for most applications. SSDs compensate for
> this by not needing to be invalidated as frequently, since they can store much
> more data. As a result, there are fewer cache misses on average, leading to fast
> response times.

Thank you!

> By leveraging the speed of modern SSDs, like NVMe, Solid Cache is designed to overcome the limitations of traditional memory-only caches like Redis and Memcached. You get the following benefits with With Solid Cache:

Reviewer 3: Should we spell out SSD and NVMe once? Does everyone know what those are/stand for? not sure.

Author: Good point, i spelled it out plus linked to a wiki page!

> - Larger Cache Sizes: The cached data is stored on a disk instead of in memory - this allows you to cache large amounts of data without worrying about the high cost. Memory-only caches like Redis and Memcached are expensive to scale because the come with very little storage capacity.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Larger Cache Sizes: The cached data is stored on a disk instead of in memory - this allows you to cache large amounts of data without worrying about the high cost. Memory-only caches like Redis and Memcached are expensive to scale because they come with very little storage capacity.
```

Author: I removed these points and just added a brief sentence "By leveraging the speed of modern SSDs like NVMe, Solid Cache overcomes the limitations of traditional memory-only caches, offering cost-effective caching with larger storage capacity and simplified infrastructure."

Author: I removed these points and just added a brief sentence "By leveraging the speed of modern SSDs like NVMe, Solid Cache overcomes the limitations of traditional memory-only caches, offering cost-effective caching with larger storage capacity and simplified infrastructure."

> - Cost-Effective: Solid Cache is much more cost-effective than traditional memory-only caches. Memory-only caches are expensive to scale because they require a lot of memory. Solid Cache is much cheaper because it uses disk storage which is much cheaper than memory.

Reviewer 3: A little less wordy like this?:

```suggestion
- Cost-Effective: Solid Cache is more cost-effective than traditional memory-only caches. Memory-only caches are expensive to scale because they require a lot of memory. Solid Cache is much cheaper because it uses cheaper disk storage.
```

Author: I removed these points and just added a brief sentence "By leveraging the speed of modern SSDs like NVMe, Solid Cache overcomes the limitations of traditional memory-only caches, offering cost-effective caching with larger storage capacity and simplified infrastructure."

> - Simplified Infrastructure: No need for additional dependencies like Redis or Memcached. Additionally, Solid Cache uses a relational database to store cached data, making it simpler to integrate into existing database setups.

Reviewer 3: This *might* be overselling it a little bit :) In practice, if your application is making heavy use of caching you would have a dedicated database for caches (and not use your primary database) so that would need to be added to your infrastructure. In the cases where the application is not self hosted and is in "the cloud", it's typically cheaper to get a Redis instance than another database instance. And Redis is dead simple, just a key/value store. So we might contradict the point :)

Overall, my reading up on Solid Cache so far has revealed that there are various tradeoffs and ultimately you would have to test it out with your application performance, it's not a "everyone should use this!" technology. But I haven't given it a spin in production so 🤷‍♀️

Author: Thanks for dropping your thoughts here! I ended up removing these points and just added a brief sentence "By leveraging the speed of modern SSDs like NVMe, Solid Cache overcomes the limitations of traditional memory-only caches, offering cost-effective caching with larger storage capacity and simplified infrastructure.".

While SSDs are slightly slower than RAM, the difference is minimal for most applications. SSDs compensate for this by not needing to be invalidated as frequently, since they can store much more data. As a result, there are fewer cache misses on average, leading to fast response times.

> Solid Cache uses a FIFO (First In, First Out) caching strategy, where the first item added to the cache is the first one to be removed when the cache reaches its limit. This approach is simpler but less efficient compared to an LRU (Least Recently Used) cache, which removes the least recently accessed items first, better optimizing for frequently used data. However, Solid Cache compensates for the lower efficiency of FIFO by allowing the cache to live longer, reducing the frequency of invalidations and improving overall performance in many scenarios.

Reviewer 3: The last bit is a little vague so maybe leave it out?

```suggestion
Solid Cache uses a FIFO (First In, First Out) caching strategy, where the first item added to the cache is the first one to be removed when the cache reaches its limit. This approach is simpler but less efficient compared to an LRU (Least Recently Used) cache, which removes the least recently accessed items first, better optimizing for frequently used data. However, Solid Cache compensates for the lower efficiency of FIFO by allowing the cache to live longer, reducing the frequency of invalidations.
```

> Solid Cache is enabled by default in Rails app from 8.0. However, if you'd prefer not to utilize it, you can skip Solid Cache:

Reviewer 3: Nitpick: to make it clear that it's the version of Rails and not version of the solid cache gem?

```suggestion
Solid Cache is enabled by default from Rails version 8.0 and onward. However, if you'd prefer not to utilize it, you can skip Solid Cache:
```

```bash
rails new app_name --skip-solid
```

WARNING: Both Solid Cache and Solid Queue are bundled behind the `--skip-solid` flag. If you still want to use Solid Queue but not Solid Cache, you can enable Solid Queue by running `rails app:enable-solid-queue`.

### Configuring the database

To use Solid Cache, you can configure the database connection in your `config/database.yml` file. Here's an example configuration for a SQLite database:

```yaml
production:
  primary:
    <<: *default
    database: storage/production.sqlite3
  cache:
    <<: *default
    database: storage/production_cache.sqlite3
    migrations_paths: db/cache_migrate
```

In this configuration, the `cache` database is used to store cached data. You can also specify a different database adapter, like MySQL or PostgreSQL, if you prefer.

```yaml
production:
  primary: &primary_production
    <<: *default
    database: app_production
    username: app
    password: <%= ENV["APP_DATABASE_PASSWORD"] %>
  cache:
    <<: *primary_production
    database: app_production_cache

>     migrations_paths: db/cache_migrate

Reviewer 3: Curious how this works? Haven't seen this before.

```

If `database` or [`databases`](#sharding-the-cache) is not specified in the cache configuration, Solid Cache will use the ActiveRecord::Base connection pool. This means that cache reads and writes will be part of any wrapping database transaction.

In production, the cache store is configured to use the solid cache store:

```yaml
  # config/environments/production.rb
  config.cache_store = :solid_cache_store
```

> You can access the cache by calling `Rails.cache`.

Reviewer 3: This last sentence feels like it's asking for a code example :)

Author: Lol it does sound like that 😁. Done  ✅

### Customizing the Cache Store

> Solid Cache can be customized through the config/cache.yml file or .

Reviewer 3: was there an "or" part?

```suggestion
Solid Cache can be customized through the config/cache.yml file:
```

```yaml
default: &default
  store_options:
    # Cap age of oldest cache entry to fulfill retention policies
    max_age: <%= 60.days.to_i %>
    max_size: <%= 256.megabytes %>
    namespace: <%= Rails.env %>
```

For the full list of keys for store_options see [Cache configuration](https://github.com/rails/solid_cache#cache-configuration).

Here, you can adjust the `max_age` and `max_size` options to control the age and size of the cache entries.

### Handling Cache Expiration

Solid Cache tracks cache writes by incrementing a counter with each write. When the counter reaches 50% of the `expiry_batch_size` from the [Cache configuration](https://github.com/rails/solid_cache#cache-configuration), a background task is triggered to handle cache expiry. This approach ensures cache records expire faster than they are written when the cache needs to shrink.

> The background task only runs when there are writes, so the process stays idle when the cache is not being updated. If you prefer to run the expiry process in a background job instead of a thread, set `expiry_method` from the[Cache configuration](https://github.com/rails/solid_cache#cache-configuration) to `:job`, which will enqueue a `SolidCache::ExpiryJob`.

Reviewer 3: Should we link the `SolidCache::ExpiryJob`?

Author: I stand to be corrected, but I don't think there exists a link to that?

Reviewer: I think it's probably to much detail. Solid Cache could decide to rename it or implement it in another way.
Maybe just delete it?
```suggestion
The background task only runs when there are writes, so the process stays idle when the cache is not being updated. If you prefer to run the expiry process in a background job instead of a thread, set `expiry_method` from the[Cache configuration](https://github.com/rails/solid_cache#cache-configuration) to `:job`.
```

```yaml
# config/cache.yml
production:
  databases: [cache_shard1, cache_shard2, cache_shard3]
```

### Encryption

Solid Cache supports encryption to protect sensitive data. To enable encryption, set the `encrypt` value in your cache configuration:

```yaml
# config/cache.yml
production:
  encrypt: true
```

You will need to set up your application to use[Active Record Encryption](active_record_encryption.html).

### Caching in Development

By default, caching is *enabled* in development mode with
[`:memory_store`](#activesupport-cache-memorystore).
This doesn't apply to Action Controller caching, which is disabled
by default.

To enable Action Controller caching Rails provides the `bin/rails dev:cache` command.

```bash
$ bin/rails dev:cache
Development mode is now being cached.
$ bin/rails dev:cache
Development mode is no longer being cached.
```

If you want to use Solid Cache in development, set the `cache_store`
configuration in `config/environments/development.rb`:

```ruby
config.cache_store = :solid_cache_store
```
and ensure the `cache` database is created and migrated:

```bash
development:
  <<: * default
  database: cache
```

> To disable caching set `cache_store` to [`:null_store`](#activesupport-cache-nullstore)

Reviewer 3: This could be a TIP maybe?

Author: ✨✅

<%= some_helper_method(person) %>
```

Solid Cache
-----------

Solid Cache is a database-backed Active Support cache store. It leverages the
speed of modern [SSDs](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Solid-state_drive) (Solid
State Drives) like [NVMe](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/NVM_Express)
(Non-Volatile Memory Express), which helps overcome the limitations of
traditional memory-only caches, offering cost-effective caching with larger
storage capacity and simplified infrastructure. While SSDs are slightly slower
than RAM, the difference is minimal for most applications. SSDs compensate for
this by not needing to be invalidated as frequently, since they can store much
more data. As a result, there are fewer cache misses on average, leading to fast

> response times.

Reviewer: Maybe this section can be simplified somewhat. Also NVM_Express might not be relevant anymore in 3 years?
```suggestion
Solid Cache is a database-backed Active Support cache store. It leverages the
speed of modern [SSDs](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Solid-state_drive) (Solid
State Drives) to offer cost-effective caching with larger
storage capacity and simplified infrastructure. While SSDs are slightly slower
than RAM, the difference is minimal for most applications. SSDs compensate for
this by not needing to be invalidated as frequently, since they can store much
more data. As a result, there are fewer cache misses on average, leading to fast
response times.
```

Author: @p8 thanks, I'll simplify and I don't know a ton about NVMe but it was emphasized in the new Rails videos by Typecraft in the new solid cache videos so thought I'd keep alignment, but maybe it's outdated as you mentioned, and happy to remove it if so.

Solid Cache uses a FIFO (First In, First Out) caching strategy, where the first
item added to the cache is the first one to be removed when the cache reaches
its limit. This approach is simpler but less efficient compared to an LRU (Least
Recently Used) cache, which removes the least recently accessed items first,
better optimizing for frequently used data. However, Solid Cache compensates for
the lower efficiency of FIFO by allowing the cache to live longer, reducing the
frequency of invalidations.

Solid Cache is enabled by default from Rails version 8.0 and onward. However, if
you'd prefer not to utilize it, you can skip Solid Cache:

```bash
rails new app_name --skip-solid
```

WARNING: Both Solid Cache and Solid Queue are bundled behind the `--skip-solid` flag. If you still want to use Solid Queue but not Solid Cache, you can enable Solid Queue by running `rails app:enable-solid-queue`.

> ### Configuring the database

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Configuring the Database
```

To use Solid Cache, you can configure the database connection in your `config/database.yml` file. Here's an example configuration for a SQLite database:

```yaml
production:
  primary:
    <<: *default
    database: storage/production.sqlite3
  cache:
    <<: *default
    database: storage/production_cache.sqlite3
    migrations_paths: db/cache_migrate
```

In this configuration, the `cache` database is used to store cached data. You can also specify a different database adapter, like MySQL or PostgreSQL, if you prefer.

```yaml
production:
  primary: &primary_production
    <<: *default
    database: app_production
    username: app
    password: <%= ENV["APP_DATABASE_PASSWORD"] %>
  cache:
    <<: *primary_production
    database: app_production_cache
    migrations_paths: db/cache_migrate
```

If `database` or [`databases`](#sharding-the-cache) is not specified in the cache configuration, Solid Cache will use the ActiveRecord::Base connection pool. This means that cache reads and writes will be part of any wrapping database transaction.

> In production, the cache store is configured to use the solid cache store:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In production, the cache store is configured to use the Solid Cache store by default:
```

```yaml
  # config/environments/production.rb
  config.cache_store = :solid_cache_store
```

You can access the cache by calling `Rails.cache`. For example:

```ruby
# Store a value in the cache
Rails.cache.write('greeting', 'Hello, world!')

# Retrieve the value from the cache
greeting = Rails.cache.read('greeting')
puts greeting # Output: Hello, world!

# Fetch a value with a block to set a default if it doesn’t exist
welcome_message = Rails.cache.fetch('welcome_message') { 'Welcome to Rails!' }
puts welcome_message # Output: Welcome to Rails!

# Delete a value from the cache

> Rails.cache.delete('greeting')

Reviewer: This section doesn't seem specific to Solid Cache. Maybe move it to the low-level cache section?

Author: ✅

```yaml
# config/database.yml
production:
  cache_shard1:
    database: cache1_production
    host: cache1-db
  cache_shard2:
    database: cache2_production
    host: cache2-db
  cache_shard3:
    database: cache3_production
    host: cache3-db
```

Additionally, you must specify the shards in the cache configuration:

```yaml
# config/cache.yml
production:
  databases: [cache_shard1, cache_shard2, cache_shard3]
```

### Encryption

Solid Cache supports encryption to protect sensitive data. To enable encryption, set the `encrypt` value in your cache configuration:

```yaml
# config/cache.yml
production:
  encrypt: true
```

You will need to set up your application to use[Active Record Encryption](active_record_encryption.html).

### Caching in Development

By default, caching is *enabled* in development mode with
[`:memory_store`](#activesupport-cache-memorystore).
This doesn't apply to Action Controller caching, which is disabled
by default.

To enable Action Controller caching Rails provides the `bin/rails dev:cache` command.

```bash
$ bin/rails dev:cache
Development mode is now being cached.
$ bin/rails dev:cache
Development mode is no longer being cached.

> ```

Reviewer: This isn't specific to Solid Cache, maybe move it under "Types of Caching" where we also mention `bin/rails dev:cache`?

If you want to use Solid Cache in development, set the `cache_store`
configuration in `config/environments/development.rb`:

```ruby
config.cache_store = :solid_cache_store
```
and ensure the `cache` database is created and migrated:

```bash
development:
  <<: * default
  database: cache
```

TIP: To disable caching set `cache_store` to [`:null_store`](#activesupport-cache-nullstore)

Other Cache Stores
------------------

Rails provides different stores for the cached data (with the exception of SQL
Caching).

### Configuration

> You can set up your a different cache store by setting the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can set up a different cache store by setting the
```

<%= some_helper_method(person) %>
```

Solid Cache
-----------

Solid Cache is a database-backed Active Support cache store and is a great choice for applications that need to cache large amounts of data.

> By leveraging the speed of modern SSDs, like NVMe, Solid Cache is designed to overcome the limitations of traditional memory-only caches like Redis and Memcached. You get the following benefits with With Solid Cache:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
By leveraging the speed of modern SSDs, like NVMe, Solid Cache is designed to overcome the limitations of traditional memory-only caches like Redis and Memcached. You get the following benefits with with Solid Cache:
```

Reviewer 2: I think we can leave out this part and the following bulletpoints: "You get the following benefits with With Solid Cache: ..."
At this point, we don't need to sell Solid Cache, we just need to show how to use it. Can we condense the benefits into one short sentence?

Author: Updated to be:

"By leveraging the speed of modern SSDs like NVMe, Solid Cache overcomes the limitations of traditional memory-only caches, offering cost-effective caching with larger storage capacity and simplified infrastructure."

Reviewer 2: Excellent! Now the bulletpoints can be removed and we lose nothing. Thank you!

Reviewer 3: > At this point, we don't need to sell Solid Cache, we just need to show how to use it. Can we condense the benefits into one short sentence?

I agree with this sentiment - explain it but not sell it :)

- Simplified Infrastructure: No need for additional dependencies like Redis or Memcached. Additionally, Solid Cache uses a relational database to store cached data, making it simpler to integrate into existing database setups.

While SSDs are slightly slower than RAM, the difference is minimal for most applications. SSDs compensate for this by not needing to be invalidated as frequently, since they can store much more data. As a result, there are fewer cache misses on average, leading to fast response times.

Solid Cache uses a FIFO (First In, First Out) caching strategy, where the first item added to the cache is the first one to be removed when the cache reaches its limit. This approach is simpler but less efficient compared to an LRU (Least Recently Used) cache, which removes the least recently accessed items first, better optimizing for frequently used data. However, Solid Cache compensates for the lower efficiency of FIFO by allowing the cache to live longer, reducing the frequency of invalidations and improving overall performance in many scenarios.

> Solid Cache is enabled by default in Rails 8.0. However, if you'd prefer not to utilize it, you can skip Solid Cache:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Solid Cache is enabled by default in Rails app from 8.0. However, if you'd prefer not to utilize it, you can skip Solid Cache:
```

Reviewer 2: Need to reword this to make it evergreen moving forward and not Rails 8 specific. Does this work?

<%= some_helper_method(person) %>
```

> Solid Cache

Author: This is the main section that I introduced.

persistent fashion, you can with low-level caching.
```yaml
# config/cache.yml
production:
  databases: [cache_shard1, cache_shard2, cache_shard3]
```

<!-- ```yaml
# config/cache.yml
production:
  shards: [cache_shard1, cache_shard2, cache_shard3]
``` -->

### Encryption

Solid Cache supports encryption to protect sensitive data. To enable encryption, set the `encrypt` value in your cache configuration:

```yaml
# config/cache.yml
production:
  encrypt: true
```

You will need to set up your application to use[Active Record Encryption](active_record_encryption.html).

### Caching in Development

By default, caching is *enabled* in development mode with
[`:memory_store`](#activesupport-cache-memorystore).
This doesn't apply to Action Controller caching, which is disabled
by default.

To enable Action Controller caching Rails provides the `bin/rails dev:cache` command.

```bash
$ bin/rails dev:cache
Development mode is now being cached.
$ bin/rails dev:cache
Development mode is no longer being cached.
```

If you want to use Solid Cache in development, set the `cache_store`
configuration in `config/environments/development.rb`:

> Cache Stores

Author: In these sections, I removed references to the old default cache stores.

#### Connection Pool Options

[`:mem_cache_store`](#activesupport-cache-memcachestore) and
[`:redis_cache_store`](#activesupport-cache-rediscachestore) are configured to
use connection pooling. This means that if you're using Puma, or another
threaded server, you can have multiple threads performing queries to the cache

> store at the same time.

Reviewer: Solid Cache uses connection pooling as well, but that is configured in the `database.yml`, so I think we are good not mentioning it here.

response.strong_etag = response.body # => "618bbc92e2d35ea1945008b42799b0e7"
```

> Caching in Development

Author: MOved this section into the Solid Cache section.

response.strong_etag = response.body # => "618bbc92e2d35ea1945008b42799b0e7"
```

> References

Reviewer: The links mentioned here are 12 years old. Maybe we can remove them? Or integrate the first one in this guide later on?

Author: I removed them, I haven't seen "references" as a common section in other guides as well.
